P2-Project_Outline/README.md, before:

# Project Outline
For this assignment, you will submit a high-level outline of your project. This can, and likely will, change over time. In particular, your mentor will provide direction and feedback to help sharpen your ideas. So don't worry if you feel unsure about some aspects of the outline or if you have to change some things later.

## Assignment Description
[Project Outline Assignment](https://education.launchcode.org/liftoff/modules/assignments/project-outline)

## Submission Instructions

### Overview
Every man, woman, and child needs to eat... 

It’s a necessity for life, and as such, most people develop some basic cooking and food preparation skills. Now, we here at the “McDev Cooking Association” can’t turn novice chefs into world-class culinary masters, but we can certainly help address a particular question that every person who steps into a kitchen will have: 

“What can I make with the ingredients I have?” 

The McDev Cooking Association is proud to present: [Insert witty App name here]; a straightforward and practical tool designed to provide ideas, inspiration, and easy-to-follow recipes for users who have the materials, but not necessarily the know-how, of what to make for their next meal. Simply provide the app with a list of ingredients you have on hand, and the app will search our database of recipes for potential matches for your next meal, complete with step-by-step instructions! 

### Features
User Login [basics] 
-A basic function to allow users a degree of personalization when using other features of our app.

CRUD functionality [basics] 
-Standard app operations to allow the user to provide data to the app to get an expected return datum.

Ingredients input for returned recipes [mvp] 
-The heart and soul of our app, the user provides our program with available foodstuffs, and we return to the user, recipe options.

Filter results (by prep/cook times, extra ingredients, ect) 
-A feature that allows the user to fine tune their returned results, for better versatility to the user

Tag system for recipes [mvp] 
-Some way of tagging the individual ingredients so all recipes on file can be uniformly parsed and handled

User uploadable recipes  
-Allow users a degree of interactivity by allowing custom recipes/variations of existing recipes

Save/favorite recipes option 
-Allows users to quickly recall preferred recipes (requires user login)

### Technologies
Include Technologies here

### What I'll Have to Learn
Include what you will need to learn here

### Project Tracker
https://trello.com/b/PuCw1855/the-food-app-name-tbd

Commit message:

Working outline of project for Liftoff

P2-Project_Outline/README.md, after:

# Project Outline
For this assignment, you will submit a high-level outline of your project. This can, and likely will, change over time. In particular, your mentor will provide direction and feedback to help sharpen your ideas. So don't worry if you feel unsure about some aspects of the outline or if you have to change some things later.

## Assignment Description
[Project Outline Assignment](https://education.launchcode.org/liftoff/modules/assignments/project-outline)

## Submission Instructions

### Overview
Every man, woman, and child needs to eat... 

It’s a necessity for life, and as such, most people develop some basic cooking and food preparation skills. Now, we here at the “McDev Cooking Association” can’t turn novice chefs into world-class culinary masters, but we can certainly help address a particular question that every person who steps into a kitchen will have: 

“What can I make with the ingredients I have?” 

The McDev Cooking Association is proud to present: [Insert witty App name here]; a straightforward and practical tool designed to provide ideas, inspiration, and easy-to-follow recipes for users who have the materials, but not necessarily the know-how, of what to make for their next meal. Simply provide the app with a list of ingredients you have on hand, and the app will search our database of recipes for potential matches for your next meal, complete with step-by-step instructions! 

### Features
User Login [basics] 
-A basic function to allow users a degree of personalization when using other features of our app.

CRUD functionality [basics] 
-Standard app operations to allow the user to provide data to the app to get an expected return datum.

Ingredients input for returned recipes [mvp] 
-The heart and soul of our app, the user provides our program with available foodstuffs, and we return to the user, recipe options.

Filter results (by prep/cook times, extra ingredients, ect) 
-A feature that allows the user to fine tune their returned results, for better versatility to the user

Tag system for recipes [mvp] 
-Some way of tagging the individual ingredients so all recipes on file can be uniformly parsed and handled

User uploadable recipes  
-Allow users a degree of interactivity by allowing custom recipes/variations of existing recipes

Save/favorite recipes option 
-Allows users to quickly recall preferred recipes (requires user login)

### Technologies
- SpringBoot Gradle project(for backend development)
- Angular(for frontend development)
- AWS(for deployment)
- MySQL(for data persistence)
- Spoonacular API(for access to data pertaining to recipes and ingredients)

### What I'll Have to Learn
Looking at the list of technologies our team is using, there will be a number of things that need be learned:
1) How to seamlessly have our frontend: Angular(using TypeScript), and our backend: SpringBoot (using Java) interact.
2) AWS as a whole is unknown and will require learning from scratch.
3) While we have experience with MySQL as a whole, we'll still need to figure out how to set up a database that isn't specifically a programmers local machine.
 Otherwise, if our project goes live all database traffic would be handled by a personal computer, where a purpose-built server would be more applicable.
4) As with AWS, Spoontacular is unfamiliar, and the programmers will need to familiarize themselves.

In addition to the technologies we've chosen to use, there are several non-programming related topics that will need to be learned:
1) Working as a team through the process of building a program will be a learning experience.
2) The members of the development team will need to learn how to delegate tasks, and support one another.
 
### Project Tracker
https://trello.com/b/PuCw1855/the-food-app-name-tbd
